[Music]
Allrecipes member Cindy Garrick tells us
that this recipe for Southern Fried
Chicken is originally from Alabama and
has been passed down for generations
start with eight pieces of cut-up
chicken
cut the breasts in half making ten
pieces total it will help them cook more
evenly season the chicken pieces with
salt to taste
[Music]
and pepper to taste
and sprinkle about a teaspoon of paprika
over the chicken
[Music]
season both sides put about a cup of
all-purpose flour in a shallow bowl or
dish and coat each piece of chicken in
the flour
[Music]
place the chicken on a wire rack if you
have one it helps air dry the chicken
and excess flour will fall away
[Music]
poor three-quarters of an inch or so of
vegetable oil into a large deep and
heavy skillet cast iron is the best if
you have one as it holds and distributes
heat evenly heat the oil to
approximately three hundred and
sixty-five degrees one thing to be very
careful of when frying in oil is to
never let any water drip into the hot
oil water explodes on contact with hot
oil and the combination can cause
serious burns when the oil is up to
temperature place the chicken pieces in
the skillet and fry the chicken for 15
to 20 minutes
don't crowd the pan because the oil will
rise as you add the chicken you'll need
to fry the chicken in batches
use a splatter screen to catch the oil
if you have one it makes cleanup that
much easier turn the pieces several
times during the cooking time so they
Brown equally on both sides
[Music]
drain the chicken on a paper towel
several Allrecipes members suggested
adding one teaspoon of onion powder one
teaspoon of garlic powder and half a
teaspoon of chili powder to the
seasonings for a little extra zing
anyway you see isn't it golden-brown
southern fried chicken is a winner